---
title: "1990-1999"
years: [1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999]
---

::card-group
::card{title="System span"}

###### **[52-week rolling system]{.gs}**

Tournaments counted for each player drop out of their breakdown 52 weeks after they enter the system.
::

::card{title="System type"}

###### **[Category based with prize money sub-classes]{.gs}**

Tournaments have different point weights according to the type of tournament a player has entered. Most categories allowed different point structures according to the tournament prize money payout.
::

::card{title="Points"}

###### **[Additive]{.gs}**

Players received points according to the round in which they are eliminated.
::

::card{title="Tournaments"}

###### **[Best 14]{.gs}**

Only the best 14 tournament results are counted for each player. Players are allowed to count the ATP World Tour Championships as an extra tournament beyond these 14 tournaments.
::

::card{title="Minimum Prize Money"}

###### **[$25,000]{.gs}**

::

::card{title="Transition"}

###### **[Direct]{.gs}**

Points were not transformed from one system to another. The ATP removed the average calculation and allowed the total points of the best 14 tournaments to be counted. Therefore, players jumped positions once the system came into effect on 1 January 1990.
::
::

---

### Rules

::tabs{color="secondary" size="lg"}

:::tabs-item{label="Base Rules"}

- All tournaments are counted on the upcoming Monday immediately after they end. Once into the system, tournaments are counted for 52 weeks.
- The rankings are published on every Monday of the year. The exception to this rule are the mid-Mondays of tournaments lasting for more than one week.
- All players must count all Grand Slams for which they are a direct acceptance on the original acceptance list, as well as their other 10 best results from all other tournaments.
- If the player is not part of the original main draw acceptance list of a mandatory event and decides not to participate before the draw is released, they may count an extra non-mandatory event.
- In weeks in which a player does not have the mandatory 4 events, he is allowed to count extra non-mandatory events to a total of 14.
- Any late withdrawal will result in a 0-point penalty to be counted as part of the best 14 tournaments.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Ties"}
When two or more players have the same number of points, ties shall be broken in this order:

1. The fewest events played, where all penalties count as a played tournament;
2. The total number of tournament points (as opposed to bonus points) gained in the tournaments played beyond the best 14.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points"}

- Players are awarded points according to the round in which they are eliminated and the category of the tournament.
- Players reaching the second (or any) round of a tournament by drawing a Bye shall receive the first round points if they lose in the first round they play in.
- Tournaments where players score 0 points are not counted in the player's total tournament count.

:::
::

---
