---
title: "1984-1989"
years: [1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989]
---

::card-group
::card{title="System span"}

###### **[52-week rolling system]{.gs}**

Tournaments counted for each player drop out of their breakdown 52 weeks after they enter the system.
::

::card{title="System type"}

###### **[Star based]{.gs}**

Tournaments have different point weights according to the number of stars a tournament has.
::

::card{title="Points"}

###### **[Variable average]{.gs}**

Players received points according to the round in which they are eliminated. These points are added and players are ordered according to the average resulted from the total points being divided to a divisor. The divisor would change the more tournaments a player participated in.
::

::card{title="Tournaments"}

###### **[Minimum of 12]{.gs}**

Players could count as many tournaments as possible, but the average was obtained from a minimum divisor of 12.
::

::card{title="Minimum Prize Money"}

###### **[$25,000]{.gs}**

::
::

---

### Rules

::tabs{color="secondary" size="lg"}

:::tabs-item{label="Base Rules"}

- All tournaments are counted on the upcoming Monday immediately after they end. Once into the system, tournaments are counted for 52 weeks.
- The rankings are published on every Monday of the year. The exception to this rule are the mid-Mondays of tournaments lasting for more than one week and weeks without any Grand prix tournaments.
- Players withdrawing before the first round is played will count the tournament to their average list.
- Late withdrawals will count as a penalty of 1 point and tournaments will be counted towards a player's average.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Ties"}
When two or more players have the same average number of points, they will be considered ranked equaly.
:::

:::tabs-item{label="Star Assignation"}

1. ::::badge{color="secondary"}
   Prize money
   ::::
   : Tournaments receive one star for each increment of $25,000 in prize money.
2. ::::badge{color="secondary"}
   Draw size
   ::::
   : Tournaments of less than $50,000 receive a maximum of 1.5 stars for 48 or 64 player draws.

   | Draw size   | Stars |
   | ----------- | ----- |
   | 32 players  | 0     |
   | 48 players  | 1     |
   | 64 players  | 2     |
   | 128 players | 3     |

3. ::::badge{color="secondary"}
   Draw Difficulty
   ::::
   : Based on the total ranking of the top 20 players inside the draw.

   | Total Ranking | Stars |
   | ------------- | ----- |
   | 1-450         | 3     |
   | 451-850       | 2     |
   | 851 - 1550    | 1     |
   | 1551+         | 0     |

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points Average Divisor"}

Where `N` is the number of tournaments played.

| Number of Tournaments Played | Divisor |
| ---------------------------- | ------- |
| 26+                          | `N` - 4 |
| 23-26                        | `N` - 3 |
| 19-22                        | `N` - 2 |
| 14-18                        | `N` - 1 |
| 13-                          | `N`     |

::::callout{color="primary"}
For players who have played 14 or more tournaments, the divisor only applies provided that the player participated in at least 1 Grand Prix Regular Series tournament.
::::

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points"}

- Players are awarded points according to the round in which they are eliminated and the tournament's star rating. In addition, players are awarded bonus points for defeating ranked and/or seeded players.
- Players reaching the second (or any) round of a tournament by drawing a Bye shall receive the first round points if they lose in the first round they play in.

:::
::

---
