---
title: "2020-2021"
years: [2020, 2021]
---

::card-group
::card{title="System span"}

###### **[52-week rolling system]{.gs}**

Tournaments counted for each player drop out of their breakdown 52 weeks after they enter the system.
::

::card{title="System type"}

###### **[Category based]{.gs}**

Tournaments have different point weights according to the type of tournament a player has entered.
::

::card{title="Points"}

###### **[Additive]{.gs}**

Players received points according to the round in which they are eliminated.
::

::card{title="Tournaments"}

###### **[Best 18]{.gs}**

Only the best 14 tournament results are counted for each player. Players are allowed to count the Tennis Masters Cup as an extra tournament beyond these 19 tournaments.
::

::card{title="Minimum Prize Money"}

###### **[$35,000]{.gs}**

::

::

---

### Rules

::tabs{color="secondary" size="lg"}

:::tabs-item{label="Base Rules"}

- All tournaments are counted on the upcoming Monday immediately after they end. Once into the system, tournaments are counted for 52 weeks.
- The rankings are published on every Monday of the year. The exception to this rule are the mid-Mondays of tournaments lasting for more than one week.
- All players must count all mandatory events for which they are a direct acceptance on the original acceptance list. In addition, they must count their other 6 best results from all other tournaments.
- If the player is not part of the original main draw acceptance list of a mandatory event and decides not to participate before the draw is released, they may count an extra non-mandatory event.
- In weeks in which a player does not have the mandatory 12 events, he is allowed to count extra non-mandatory events to a total of 18.
- Once a player becomes part of the main draw of any of the 12 mandatory events, either as a qualifier, lucky loser, direct acceptance, special exempt or wild card, that tournament counts for his rankings. Any late withdrawal will result in a 0-point penalty.

::::callout{color="primary"}
**Mandatory events are:**

- Grand Slams
- All ATP Masters 1000 events
- ATP Finals

::::

:::

:::tabs-item{label="ATP 500 Events"}

- Late withdrawals shall result in a 0-point penalty.
- Commitment players must play 4 ATP 500 events across a calendar year, one of which must be played after the US Open. Failure to do so will result in a 0-point penalty for all missing tournaments.

::::callout{color="primary"}
**A commitment player is defined as a player who has finished in the Top 30 at the year-end rankings of the previous year.**
::::
:::

:::tabs-item{label="ATP Masters 1000 Exemptions"}
Rankings-wise, players are exempt from playing up to 3 ATP Masters 1000 if they fulfill any of the following:

1. Players have reached the age of 30 by the 1st of January of the current year;
2. Players have participated in 600 ATP level matches. Pre-2010 non-ATP level matches also count.
3. Players have fulfilled 12 years of server. The first year of serice is the first year in which a player has participated in 12 tournaments offering ranking points.

Players are not allowed to skip a tournament from which they had withdrawn at the previous edition without playing any matches.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Ties"}
When two or more players have the same number of points, ties shall be broken in this order:

1. Total points from all Grand Slams, ATP Masters 1000 mandatory tournaments and ATP Finals main draws;
2. The fewest events played, where all penalties count as a played tournament;
3. The total number of points from the players' best tournament, then, if needed, the second best, etc.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="COVID-19 Temporary 22-Month System"}

- Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the tour was suspended between March and August 2020. Upon resumption, the ATP used a temporary 22-month rankings system.
- Mandatory tournaments no longer forced player points.
- All 2019 points present in the system on 16 March 2020 have a 52-week increase to the period kept in the system, but drops when another iteration of the same Tour level event is played.
- All 2020 points drop after 52 weeks or when the 2021 edition of the event is played, whichever comes first.
- If a player has 2 iterations of the same event (2019 / 2020), the maximum points of the two is counted towards the rankings until the event is played again in 2021.
- Between August 2021 and August 2022, all 2019-2020 tournaments are phased out with a 52-week drop to all 2021 events.
- In 2021, the system adopts a best 19 rule to count an extra tournament to all players' breakdowns.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points"}

- Players are awarded points according to the round in which they are eliminated and the category of the tournament.
- Players reaching the second (or any) round of a tournament by drawing a Bye shall receive the first round points if they lose in the first round they play in.
- Players who enter a tournament by means of a Wild Card shall receive 0 points in the first round they play in.

:::
::

---
