---
title: "2007-2008"
years: [2007, 2008]
---

::card-group
::card{title="System span"}

###### **[52-week rolling system]{.gs}**

Tournaments counted for each player drop out of their breakdown 52 weeks after they enter the system.
::

::card{title="System type"}

###### **[Category based with prize money sub-classes]{.gs}**

Tournaments have different point weights according to the type of tournament a player has entered. Most categories allowed different point structures according to the tournament prize money payout.
::

::card{title="Points"}

###### **[Additive]{.gs}**

Players received points according to the round in which they are eliminated.
::

::card{title="Tournaments"}

###### **[Best 18]{.gs}**

Only the best 14 tournament results are counted for each player. Players are allowed to count the Tennis Masters Cup as an extra tournament beyond these 19 tournaments.
::

::card{title="Minimum Prize Money"}

###### **[$25,000]{.gs}**

::

::card{title="Transition"}

###### **[80% reduction]{.gs}**

All tournament points gained in the 1999 season were reduced to 80% of their value once entered into the new system. The best 14 system transitioned directly into the best 18.
::
::

---

### Rules

::tabs{color="secondary" size="lg"}

:::tabs-item{label="Base Rules"}

- All tournaments are counted on the upcoming Monday immediately after they end. Once into the system, tournaments are counted for 52 weeks.
- The rankings are published on every Monday of the year. The exception to this rule are the mid-Mondays of tournaments lasting for more than one week.
- All players must count all Grand Slams and Master Series events for which they are a direct acceptance on the original acceptance list, as well as their other 5 best results from all other tournaments.
- If the player is not part of the original main draw acceptance list of a mandatory event and decides not to participate before the draw is released, they may count an extra non-mandatory event.
- In weeks in which a player does not have the mandatory 13 events, he is allowed to count extra non-mandatory events to a total of 18.
- Once a player becomes part of the main draw of any of the 13 mandatory events, either as a qualifier, lucky loser, direct acceptance, special exempt or wild card, that tournament counts for his rankings. Any late withdrawal will result in a 0-point penalty.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Ties"}
When two or more players have the same number of points, ties shall be broken in this order:

1. Total points from all Grand Slams, ATP Masters Series tournaments and Tennis Masters Cup main draws;
1. The fewest events played, where all penalties count as a played tournament;
1. The total number of points from the players' best tournament, then, if needed, the second best, etc.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points"}

- Players are awarded points according to the round in which they are eliminated and the category of the tournament.
- Players reaching the second (or any) round of a tournament by drawing a Bye shall receive the first round points if they lose in the first round they play in.
- Players withdrawing before their frist round shall be considred to be a Bye in the main draw and will not receive points for it.
- Tournaments where players score 0 points are not counted in the player's total tournament count.
- Players who receive a Wild Card will not get points for a first round loss in the tournament.

:::
::

---
