---
title: "2024-present"
years: [2024, 2025]
---

::card-group
::card{title="System span"}

###### **[52-week rolling system]{.gs}**

Tournaments counted for each player drop out of their breakdown 52 weeks after they enter the system.
::

::card{title="System type"}

###### **[Category based]{.gs}**

Tournaments have different point weights according to the type of tournament a player has entered.
::

::card{title="Points"}

###### **[Additive]{.gs}**

Players received points according to the round in which they are eliminated.
::

::card{title="Tournaments"}

###### **[Best 19]{.gs}**

Only the best 19 tournament results are counted for each player. Players are allowed to count the ATP Tour Finals as an extra tournament beyond these 19 tournaments.
::

::card{title="Minimum Prize Money"}

###### **[$40,000]{.gs}**

::

::card{title="Transition"}

###### **[No change]{.gs}**

No change was performed to the previous system's points at the start of 2024.
::
::

---

### Rules

::tabs{color="secondary" size="lg"}

:::tabs-item{label="Base Rules"}

- All tournaments are counted on the upcoming Monday immediately after they end. Once into the system, tournaments are counted for 52 weeks.
- The rankings are published on every Monday of the year. The exception to this rule are the mid-Mondays of tournaments lasting for more than one week.
- All players must count all mandatory events for which they are a direct acceptance on the original acceptance list. In addition, they must count their other 7 best results from all other tournaments.
- If the player is not part of the original main draw acceptance list of a mandatory event and decides not to participate before the draw is released, they may count an extra non-mandatory event.
- In weeks in which a player does not have the mandatory 12 events, he is allowed to count extra non-mandatory events to a total of 19. If in certain situations, more than 12 mandatory events were played within the previous 52 weeks, they will count, decreasing the number of optional tournaments counted.
- Once a player becomes part of the main draw of any of the 12 mandatory events, either as a qualifier, lucky loser, direct acceptance, special exempt or wild card, that tournament counts for his rankings. Any late withdrawal will result in a 0-point penalty.

::::callout{color="primary"}
**Mandatory events are:**

- Grand Slams
- All ATP Masters 1000 events except for Monte-Carlo Masters
- ATP Finals

::::

::::callout{color="info"}
**Two week tournaments are:**

- All Grand Slams
- Indian Wells Masters
- Miami Masters
- Madrid Masters
- Rome Masters
- Canada Masters
- Cincinnati Masters
- Shanghai Masters

::::

:::

:::tabs-item{label="ATP 500 Events"}

- Late withdrawals shall result in a 0-point penalty.
- Commitment players must play 4 ATP 500 events across a calendar year, one of which must be played after the US Open. Failure to do so will result in a 0-point penalty for all missing tournaments.

::::callout{color="primary"}
**A commitment player is defined as a player who has finished in the Top 30 at the year-end rankings of the previous year.**
::::
:::

:::tabs-item{label="Additional Rules"}

- Players returning to competition with an Entry Protection Ranking may replace ranking penalties assessed during the period of injury with results obtained at tournaments following their return to competition.
- Players who are out of competition for three or more consecutive months (13-weeks minimum) can replace 0-point penalties as follows:
  1. Missed mandatory event points cannot be replaced;
  2. penalty can be replaced if there are 2 mandatory events missed;
  3. 2 penalties can be replaced if there are 3 or more mandatory events missed.
- With the above rule, players can replace 0-point penalties (from mandatory ATP Masters 1000 events) when they attend ATP 250/500 events that happen after the missed mandatory event.
- Points from ATP 1000 Masters events can be replaced by up to 3 ATP 250/500 events that occur after the ATP Masters 1000 event.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Ties"}
When two or more players have the same number of points, ties shall be broken in this order:

1. Total points from all Grand Slams, ATP Masters 1000 mandatory tournaments and ATP Finals main draws;
2. The fewest events played, where all penalties count as a played tournament;
3. The total number of points from the players' best tournament, then, if needed, the second best, etc.

:::

:::tabs-item{label="Points"}

- Players are awarded points according to the round in which they are eliminated and the category of the tournament.
- Players reaching the second (or any) round of a tournament by drawing a Bye shall receive the first round points if they lose in the first round they play in.
- Players who enter a tournament by means of a Wild Card shall receive 0 points in the first round they play in.

:::
::

---
